---
title: "New Music : July 2015"
date: "2015-07-31"
categories: 
  - "music"
---

July has been an odd month. It's the first month for a while I've spent an extended period of time in one place, and I suppose the music I've listened to has reflected this. I've had more time to read blogs and websites and hunt out new and unusual things to listen to, and I've also spent a fair bit of time reading this month, which tends to require a more ambient and instrumental soundtrack.

It also strikes me I've listened to a lot of new music thing month; certainly more than any other month this year.

The full list of what I've discovered (and would recommend) is:

Ezra Furman - _Perpetual Motion Music_  
Veruca Salt - _Ghost Notes_  
OHMMS - _Cold_  
Nordic Giants - _A Seance of Dark Delusions_  
Carpet - _Elysian Pleasure_  
Ghostface Killah and Adrian Younge - _Twelve Reasons to Die II_  
B Dolan - _Kill the Wolf_  
Wilco - _Star Wars_  
Tame Impala - _Currents_ Anthonie Tonnon - _Successor_  
Abyss - _Pastel Ghost_  
Desaparecidos - _Payola_  
Passion Pit - _Kindred_  
Four Tet - _Morning/Evening_  
Marsheaux - _A Broken Frame_  
Toe - _Hear You_  
Locrian - _Infinite Dissolution_  
God is an Astronaut - _Helios | Erebus_

I've also caught up on a few things I missed earlier in the year, specifically Steven Wilson's excellent _Hand. Cannot. Erase._ which is probably the most impressive vinyl release I've come across since I started buying records again.

August is another month of travelling (starting on 1st, and ending some time in early September), and I'm looking forward to exploring some of this music through headphones when I'm far away from home.
