---
title: "New Music - May 2016"
date: "2016-05-29"
categories: 
  - "music"
---

I was at home a lot this month, using up holiday I needed to take, and also doing a lot of de-cluttering and technical projects around the house. I did listen to a fair bit of new music (as detailed below), but I also ripped around 100 old CDs to my computer, and so much of my fortnight off was sound-tracked by music from the 90s and very early 2000s, which I'd not listened to for the best part of 10 years.

May also saw the unexpected release of the new Radiohead album. I've played it a lot, I love it, and I'd highly recommend it to anyone. Also of note was the Rough Trade album of the month by LUH. The music is great, but it's also the sort of record that you want to just _look_ at - it's full of interesting artwork, and the sleeve itself is a work of art.

I'd also highly recommend the New Order record. It's extended versions of last year's album, but it comes with a download code for the original album so you get a great deal of wonderful music for £9.99. Of course, that means I now have another download code for _Music Complete_.

I also love the new Car Seat Headrest record. If you're intrigued then there are a few very good albums available from [Bandcamp](https://carseatheadrest.bandcamp.com/music) on a pay-what-you-want basis. I'd recommend [_How to Leave Town_](https://carseatheadrest.bandcamp.com/album/how-to-leave-town) as a representative starting point.

My list for May is:

Radiohead - _A Moon Shaped Pool_  
LUH - _Spiritual Songs for Lovers to Sing_  
James Blake - _The Colour in Anything_ Julianna Barwick - _Will_  
Cate le Bon - _Crab Days_ New Order _Complete Music_ (extended versions from last year's _Music Complete_)  
Drake - _Views_ Cat Seat Headrest - _Teens of Denial_ Super Furry Animals - _Bing Bong_(single\_)
